Print guide first version (#465)
akeneo/pim-api-docs: content/guides/print-connection/step3-reconcile-PIM-data-with-print-features.md

**What do you need to implement?**

Remember that for each PIM channel, Julia can associate a category tree: your users only need to see the category tree associated to the "Print" channel.

Then with this category tree, your end-users :
* can define how the products are organized in the paper catalog
* can create navigation tabs for their print catalog
* ...

## What about Reference Entities?

**What is it?**

Please consult the introduction of [our documentation on Reference Entities](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/v3/articles/what-about-reference-entities.html) to understand how this can be used for print catalog purposes:

As you can see, Reference Entities can be used to enrich product information or to create dedicated pages with product relationships.

The main problem here is that Julia can use "Reference Entities" for a wide variety of needs.

**What do you need to implement?**

Well, two main use-cases here:

1. **Manage Reference Entities as a specific print page for a set of products**

> As an entity reference can represent a product "universe" (ie: dedicated editorial content for a brand or a designer), you could enable your users:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a reference entity can be used to add additional contextualized information around a given product (ie: dedicated editorial content for a brand or a designer), you could enable your users:
```

* to organize their products according to these reference entities

> * to create a specific header page to present this "universe" for a brand, a designer...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* to create a specific introduction page to present this "universe" for a brand, a designer, etc.
```

2. **Manage Reference Entities as rich information around a specific product attribute**

Because a reference entity can be related to a specific attribute (ie: details of a color, a material...), you could enable your users:

> * to display this information at product level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* to display this information at the product level
```

Next step, for each piece of PIM data, you need to ask yourself the following questions:

1. What data does my print solution need from the PIM?
2. Do I need to implement a configuration UI on my connector to fit to any of my end users' needs, and adapt to any catalog type created with the PIM?
3. Documentation: What do I need to document? (Data processing, feature limits, possible settings...)   

In order to help you implement your connector features, you will find below a few useful tips to implement in your print connector.

## API connection configuration

**What is it?**

In order for your connector to communicate with Akeneo PIM, you need to provide a setting to invite Julia to enter her PIM API credentials.

**What do you need to implement?**

* A UI or a “configuration file” to copy and paste Akeneo PIM API credentials (client id, secret, connection username and password).
* If you create a UI, add a “Test” button to test the connection (in order to check that everything is correctly configured on this side, and maybe to start retrieving some interesting information from Akeneo PIM)

## Product management

### Manage products

> ![product mapping](../../img/guides/configuration-product.png)

Reviewer 2: I don't feel like this screenshot is helping.

> **What is it?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**What is it?**

```

* Image attributes are localizable (different images for each locale) and/or scopable (different assets for each channel).
* Image can have metadata (assets with a corresponding set of text attributes)
These image metadata are scopable and/or localizable.
* Asset Images can be ordered at the product level

**What do you need to implement?**

Apart from taking into consideration all these PIM modeling capabilities, you also need to take into account some print solution specific features such as:

* How to define product attributes that represent the product images
* How to define the “main” image of the product (Should be bigger than the ones on your print solution)
* Define if you need to import metadata or not (could be the image caption)

::: warning
The number of images that a catalog can contain can be quite large and we know that images dedicated to a print catalog can be very heavy (high definition).
Make sure you have all the mechanisms in your connector to optimize the performance to manage image binaries.
:::

### Manage product associations

> **What is it?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**What is it?**

```

In a PIM, you can manage different types of associations such as:
* Cross-sell
* Up-sell
* Substitutions
* Pack
* Custom association

Some of your customers may want to use these associations for their print catalog.

**What do you need to implement?**

Well, here, it depends on your customers' needs.

Also, don't forget our new feature that adds [quantities to PIM associations](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/updates/2020-07.html#new-association-type-with-quantities).

### What about PIM product groups feature?

> **What is it?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**What is it?**

```

Groups are used to bring products together.

> In Akeneo PIM, you can group a selection of products to create a theme, for example a collection of products for  Christmas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Akeneo PIM, you can group a selection of products to create a theme, for example a collection of products for Christmas.
```

But most of the time, this feature is for internal purpose and product groups don’t have to be exported to your print solution.

> **What do you need to implement?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**What do you need to implement?**

```

## Product management

### Manage products

![product mapping](../../img/guides/configuration-product.png)

**What is it?**

You need to import products from the PIM into your print solution...
But which products? All products that are in the PIM?

Products are prepared in Akeneo PIM but not all of them are intended to be exported to your print platform.

Because the PIM is multi-channels, multi-languages and offers the capability to model a catalog for different needs, you should allow your end-users to define which PIM data they want to import via an advanced filter system.

Here are some examples of filters you should implement:

* Channel: Only import product date related to the selected channel (most of the time a "print" channel).
* Locale: Only import product data related to the selected locale.
* Completeness: A PIM product can be exported if it is complete in terms of data contents, translation (localizable attribute) and information specific to the channels you are going to use (scopable attribute).

> * Enabled/Disabled status: Each PIM product has an enable/disable status. A PIM product can be exported if it has an enabled status only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enabled/Disabled status: Each PIM product has an enable/disable status. You can set your connector to only export products that are `enabled`.
```

> And sometimes, your customers may also need to import a PIM product into the print solution based on the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And sometimes, your customers may also need to export a PIM product to the print solution based on the following parameters:
```

> * Published product: some PIM customers can use this feature to work on different versions of the product. In the PIM, you can manage two different versions of a very same product: one “published” version that can be exported (using a published product export profile) and another version that is used to prepare the next product collection or season, for example. This is handled by the Akeneo PIM “Publication” feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Published product:  In the PIM, you can choose to manage two different versions of the very same product: one “published” version that can be exported (using a published product export profile) and another version that is used to prepare the next product collection or launch, for example. This is handled by the Akeneo PIM “Publication” feature.
```

* The value of a specific attribute

> * A category tree or a subcategory tree…

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A category tree or a subcategory tree
```

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...
```

> **Conclusion:** each customer project has its own needs and it is important to implement enough flexibility in your connector settings to allow each customer to import only the product information he needs according to his criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Conclusion:** each customer project has its own requirements and it is important to offer enough flexibility in your connector settings to allow each customer to import only the product information they need according to their own criteria.
```

**What do you need to implement?**

> In the features of your connector configuration, you can add a “simple” and an “advanced” filter system to toggle from one to the other according to your customers' needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the features of your connector configuration page, in order to be able to cover all of your customers' needs, you can choose to have one of the two filter systems. Either a “simple” one for straightforward use cases or an “advanced” one for the most specific requirements. 
```

> ### Product with variants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Products with variants
```

**What is it?**

Products with variants are products that have similarities, they are based on the same model but differ in some aspects from one another.

> Please consult [our documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/v3/articles/what-about-products-variants.html), to learn everything about PIM product with variants:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please consult [our documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/v3/articles/what-about-products-variants.html), to learn everything about PIM products with variants:
```

::: info

> * PIM can manage up to 3 levels of enrichment (1 or 2 variant levels)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Akeneo PIM can manage up to 3 levels of enrichment (1 or 2 variant levels)
```

>   * 1 or 2 levels of “product model”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * 1 or 2 levels of `product model`
```

>   * 1 level of variant “product”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * 1 level of variant `product`
```

* PIM can have up to 5 attributes as variant axes for each level
* PIM variant axes can be:
  * Simple select
  * Reference entity single link (EE only)
  * Measurement
  * Boolean (Yes/No)
:::

**What do you need to implement?**

> Compared to your print solution and your end-user needs, you could offer a UI that allows your users to define how these variants will be displayed on the paper catalog page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to your print solution and your end-users' needs, you could offer a UI that allows your users to define how these variants will be displayed on the paper catalog page.
```
